CPU/Boards: Add Raspberry Pi Pico 2 (RP2350) support (#21545)
RIOT-OS/RIOT: boards/rpi-pico-2/doc.md

@defgroup    boards_rpi_pico_2 Raspberry Pi Pico 2
@ingroup     boards
@brief       Support for the RP2350 based Raspberry Pi Pico board

## Overview

> The Raspberry Pi Pico 2 is a microcontroller board based on the RP2350 chip, featuring dual-core Arm Cortex-M0+ processors and RISC-V Hazard secondary architecture. It is designed for a wide range of applications, from hobbyist projects to professional embedded systems for a fairly affordable price.

Reviewer: Hazard or Harvard?

![The Raspberry Pi Pico 2 Board](https://www.raspberrypi.com/documentation/microcontrollers/images/pico-2.png)

## Hardware

| MCU        | RP2350                                                      |
|:-----------|:------------------------------------------------------------|
| Family     | Dual Cortex-M33 or Hazard3 (RISC-V) @ 150 MHz               |
| Vendor     | Raspberry Pi                                                |
| RAM        | 520 kB on-chip SRAM (10 independent banks)                  |
| Flash      | Up to 16 MB external QSPI flash (expandable to 32 MB)       |

> | Frequency  | up to 150 MHz                                               |

Reviewer: It would be good to write here at which frequency it's clocked in RIOT.

Author: Will do ty for the info

| UARTs      | 2                                                           |
| SPIs       | 2                                                           |
| I2Cs       | 2                                                           |
| PWM        | 24 channels                                                 |
| USB        | USB 1.1 controller with host and device support             |
| Power      | On-chip switched-mode power supply with LDO sleep mode      |
| OTP        | 8 kB of one-time-programmable storage                       |
| Datasheet  | [RP2350 Datasheet](https://datasheets.raspberrypi.com/rp2350/rp2350-datasheet.pdf) |

## User Interfaces

| Interface  | Description                                                  |
|:-----------|:-------------------------------------------------------------|
| LED0       | User LED (GPIO 0 at Pin 25)                                  |
| SW0        | Button used in flash process, can be accessed using registers but difficult |

## Pinout

![Pinout Diagram](https://www.raspberrypi.com/documentation/microcontrollers/images/pico-2-r4-pinout.svg)

## Flashing the Board

> 
> ### Flashing using OpenOCD
> 
> The Raspberry Pi Pico 2 has a built-in bootloader that allows flashing via USB. However, you can also use OpenOCD for flashing the board.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

The Raspberry Pi Pico 2 has a built-in bootloader that allows flashing via USB. However, you can also use OpenOCD for flashing the board.

### Flashing using OpenOCD
```

The sentence could be used as an introduction to the subsection and to redirect the reader to the subsubsections `OpenOCD` and `Picotool`.
Speaking of which, I would probably put the `Picotool` section in front of OpenOCD, as it is more convenient to use the `Picotool`,

Author: will do

> Raspberry Pi provide a setup if you have two pico boards where one acts as a programmer. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have two Raspberry Pi Pico boards, you can utilize one as a programmer to program the other board.
```

Just a proposal. Currently the sentence is a bit unclear IMO.

Please refer to the [Debugprobe documentation](https://www.raspberrypi.com/documentation/microcontrollers/debug-probe.html#getting-started) for more details.

To do this, you need to connect the board to your computer and use the following command:

```bash

> PROGRAMMER=openocd make flash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PROGRAMMER=openocd BOARD=rpi-pico-2 make flash
```

```

You can then debug your application using GDB with the following command:

```bash

> PROGRAMMER=openocd make debug

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PROGRAMMER=openocd BOARD=rpi-pico-2 make debug
```

```

### Flashing using Picotool

> Simply connect the board to your computer and use the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Simply connect the board to your computer via USB and use the following command:
```

```bash

> PROGRAMMER=picotool make flash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
PROGRAMMER=picotool BOARD=rpi-pico-2 make flash
```

Reviewer: Perhaps it's not even required to explicitly specify the Picotool, considering it's the default:
```suggestion
BOARD=rpi-pico-2 make flash
```

```

This is the default method for flashing the Raspberry Pi Pico 2. However, it does not allow for debugging using GDB.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
@note When programming the board with the Picotool for the first time, RIOT will download and install the Picotool locally in the RIOT folder. This process will take some minutes to complete.
```

Probably a good idea to add that as a note to avoid confusion.

Author: I mean does it take so long that it confuses people?

Reviewer: When I started with RIOT, I was confused by the time it takes to complete the first compilation.
Also, `picotool` generates a lot of CMake messages, which aren't normally generated.

@defgroup    boards_rpi_pico_2 Raspberry Pi Pico 2
@ingroup     boards
@brief       Support for the RP2350 based Raspberry Pi Pico board

## Overview

The Raspberry Pi Pico 2 is a microcontroller board based on the RP2350 chip, featuring dual-core Arm Cortex-M0+ processors and RISC-V Hazard secondary architecture. It is designed for a wide range of applications, from hobbyist projects to professional embedded systems for a fairly affordable price.

![The Raspberry Pi Pico 2 Board](https://www.raspberrypi.com/documentation/microcontrollers/images/pico-2.png)

## Hardware

| MCU        | RP2350                                                      |
|:-----------|:------------------------------------------------------------|

> | Family     | Dual Cortex-M33 or Hazard3 (RISC-V) @ 150 MHz               |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Family     | Dual Cortex-M33 or Hazard3 (RISC-V)                         |
```

As we now have the actual frequency and the theoretical max below, this would be redundant and possibly confusing.

@defgroup    boards_rpi_pico_2 Raspberry Pi Pico 2
@ingroup     boards
@brief       Support for the RP2350 based Raspberry Pi Pico board

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

@warning The support for the Raspberry Pi Pico 2 is still in a very early stage! See [Known Issues](#rpi_pico_2_known_issues).

```

Reviewer: Perhaps it's worth adding a more prominent warning at the top for the time being.

To do this, you need to connect the board to your computer and use the following command:

```bash
PROGRAMMER=openocd BOARD=rpi-pico-2 make flash
```

You can then debug your application using GDB with the following command:

```bash
PROGRAMMER=openocd BOARD=rpi-pico-2 make debug
```

### Flashing using Picotool

Simply connect the board to your computer via USB and use the following command:

```bash
BOARD=rpi-pico-2 make flash
```

This is the default method for flashing the Raspberry Pi Pico 2. However, it does not allow for debugging using GDB.

@note When programming the board with the Picotool for the first time, RIOT will download and install the Picotool locally in the RIOT folder. This process will take some minutes to complete.

> ## Known Issues

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Known Issues {#rpi_pico_2_known_issues}
```

For the reference in the warning.

| UARTs      | 2                                                           |
| SPIs       | 2                                                           |
| I2Cs       | 2                                                           |
| PWM        | 24 channels                                                 |
| USB        | USB 1.1 controller with host and device support             |
| Power      | On-chip switched-mode power supply with LDO sleep mode      |
| OTP        | 8 kB of one-time-programmable storage                       |
| Datasheet  | [RP2350 Datasheet](https://datasheets.raspberrypi.com/rp2350/rp2350-datasheet.pdf) |

## User Interfaces

| Interface  | Description                                                  |
|:-----------|:-------------------------------------------------------------|
| LED0       | User LED (GPIO 0 at Pin 25)                                  |
| SW0        | Button used in flash process, can be accessed using registers but difficult |

## Pinout

![Pinout Diagram](https://www.raspberrypi.com/documentation/microcontrollers/images/pico-2-r4-pinout.svg)

## Flashing the Board

> The Raspberry Pi Pico 2 has a built-in bootloader that allows flashing via USB. However, you can also use OpenOCD for flashing the board.

Author: fixed

@defgroup    boards_rpi_pico_2 Raspberry Pi Pico 2
@ingroup     boards
@brief       Support for the RP2350 based Raspberry Pi Pico board

@warning The support for the Raspberry Pi Pico 2 is still in a very early stage! See [Known Issues](#rpi_pico_2_known_issues).

## Overview

The Raspberry Pi Pico 2 is a microcontroller board based on the RP2350 chip, featuring dual-core Arm Cortex-M0+ processors and RISC-V Hazard secondary architecture. It is designed for a wide range of applications, from hobbyist projects to professional embedded systems for a fairly affordable price.

![The Raspberry Pi Pico 2 Board](https://www.raspberrypi.com/documentation/microcontrollers/images/pico-2.png)

## Hardware

| MCU        | RP2350                                                      |
|:-----------|:------------------------------------------------------------|
| Family     | Dual Cortex-M33 or Hazard3 (RISC-V)                         |
| Vendor     | Raspberry Pi                                                |
| RAM        | 520 kB on-chip SRAM (10 independent banks)                  |

> | Flash      | Up to 16 MB external QSPI flash (expandable to 32 MB)       |

Reviewer: It would be interesting to write how much Flash the RPi Pico 2 has. I think 2MB?

Author: 4MB by default, added that :+1:

| UARTs      | 2                                                           |
| SPIs       | 2                                                           |
| I2Cs       | 2                                                           |
| PWM        | 24 channels                                                 |
| USB        | USB 1.1 controller with host and device support             |
| Power      | On-chip switched-mode power supply with LDO sleep mode      |
| OTP        | 8 kB of one-time-programmable storage                       |
| Datasheet  | [RP2350 Datasheet](https://datasheets.raspberrypi.com/rp2350/rp2350-datasheet.pdf) |

## User Interfaces

| Interface  | Description                                                  |
|:-----------|:-------------------------------------------------------------|
| LED0       | User LED (GPIO 0 at Pin 25)                                  |
| SW0        | Button used in flash process, can be accessed using registers but difficult |

## Pinout

![Pinout Diagram](https://www.raspberrypi.com/documentation/microcontrollers/images/pico-2-r4-pinout.svg)

## Flashing the Board

> The Raspberry Pi Pico 2 has a built-in bootloader that allows flashing via USB. However, you can also use OpenOCD for flashing the board. If you are using picotool, you need to hold the bootselect button (the only button on the board) while connecting the board to your computer via USB. This will put the board into bootloader mode, allowing you to flash it.

Reviewer: Loooooooong line.

Also there are more long lines that could use a line break, I don't want to plag every one of them.

Author: no longer line :(
